---

layout: post
metaTitle: Day 4 | Balloch to Moffat | JOGLE 2017
title: Balloch to Moffat
excerpt: 87 miles
permalink: /day-four/
date: 15 August 2017

---

## Glasgow

With my last full day of Scotland upon me I was in familiar territory as I approached the south west of the country. Cycle paths were my friend when navigating Glasgow although this does bring it's only challenges. It was an inevitable that I would get a puncture at some point and the cycle paths of Glasgow duly delivered. Luckily I have performed this basic maintenance task on numerous occasions so I only lost 10 minutes out of my journey.

## Sarah's Van

As the time reached late morning it was becoming increasingly more grey and overcast. When the rain fell I learned that I needed to grab onto anything to keep my spirits high. In this particular instance it was something that probably only my Scottish friends would understand. After leaving the bumpy yet quiet cycle path I found myself in an area consisting of industrial parks, depots and large boring buildings until I saw a sign for "Sarah's Van". This took me back to secondary school when there was always a mad dash to get to 'The Van' at break time. After spotting the sign I had to turn in and check it out. With approaching my second breakfast time I felt the urge to endulge. The next part is not recommended for dietary purposes of course but sometimes you just need to keep you going at difficult time. A styrofoam fry-up for £4 turned out to be the bargin of the century. Bacon, 2 tattie scones, link sausages, an egg, a hashbrown, square sausage, a buttered roll and a cup of tea! How can you argue with that?!

## Moffat

The second part of the day was mostly cycling adjacent to the M74 which on the cycle paths which was my route to the border. Crossing the border would have to wait until tomorrow as I was still having to navigate the South of Scotland in what seemed like by this time a never ending headwind. This was by far the worst day in terms of weather and with the cycle paths being vastly exposed there was no place to hide from the elements. It got so bad that I had to stop for a second time even though this was, by this time, a short cycle for me. Too illustrate the non glamorous side of this trip I pulled into a lorry stop which was basically a run down hotel and bar which wasn't open at 4pm. This was to get out of the rain for a bit essentially. Despite the dire setting this trip never failed in meeting generous people. After entering I was greeted by two cleaners who inevitably asked what the hell I was doing cycling in the weather. After filling them in on the birthday plans I got a free cup of tea and very Scottish pep talk. It was little things like that that kept me going when the never ending rain of the Scottish summer was trying to bring my spirits down. Pep talk complete, it was time to head onto Moffat. Another Scottish hidden gem of a village, Moffat is extremely popular as a stop for cyclists embarking on an end to end voyage. I was kindly greeted by my hosts and were very accommodating despite my very damp outlook. After a quick shower and grabbing something to eat it was defintely a night where I needed to get plenty of rest as tomorrow would be my longest day, clocking in at 132 miles.


## Cycling Highlight

