---

layout: post
metaTitle: Day 2 | Lairg to Spean Bridge | JOGLE 2017
title: Lairg to Spean Bridge
excerpt: 112 miles
permalink: /day-two/
date: 13 August 2017

---

## Rain

With my aim of leaving at around 6:30am most mornings I thought breakfast was going to be a bit of a problem. Cycling on an empty stomach is always a mistake but on this occasion my host for the previous night, Janice, provided me with a filling breakfast to take with me which included a hardboliled egg, what a hero!

Before leaving I remember looking at the forecast for the day and being presented with the prospect of a full day of rain. To be honest did I really expect to make it 10 days in the UK cycling outside without rain? Absolutely not!

## A mishap?

When I was going through my check of belongings the previous night my heart skipped a beat when I realised I didn't have my pump with me. This lead me to become very nervous as I had 20 miles to go to get to the nearest bike shop and a slow puncture at this point in time would of been disastorous. My first thought was that I left it in John O'Groats but as I found out a few weeks later I didn't even leave Edinburgh with it! Lucikly I made it through the first few hours with no punctures and bought myself a brand new pump. Crisis averted for sure.

## Inverness

I always had it in my head that Inverness would be my first 'milestone' therefore it was a pleasant site when I crossed over the highland bridge onto the mainland for the first time. The rain never wained at all since around mile 30 until I finished. The waterproofs had a real workout but after a while you accept the fact that you are going to be wet for the rest of the day. 

## Loch Ness

Due to conditions, progress was slow on day 2 mostly due to the prevailing headwind that I had endured ever since setting off in the morning. Despite this my spirits were high and not even the overcast grey conditions could spoil cycling adjacent to Loch Ness for 30 miles. I had always told myself that despite who sore I was that I would always get my head up and take in everything that the landscape had to offer. This was defintely one of those occasions. No sign of Nessie though!

## Spean Bridge

Mainly due to the headwind, the 112 mile distance and my decision to stop for dinner before arriving in Spean Bridge I ended up at my AirBnb just before 9pm, considerably later than planned. This left enough time for a chat with my host for the evening, Margaret, who very kindly donated £25 to my fundraising efforts, a quick shower and my usual check in with the parents.

## Cycling Highlight

Although Loch Ness is a view that is hard to forget, my descent into the small town of Fort Augustus, about 20 miles from Spean Bridge, was a lasting memory from that rainy day. When a day of headwinds catches up with you there is nothing better than flying down a 15% gradient at over 30mph. 