---

layout: post
metaTitle: Day 3 | Spean Bridge to Balloch | JOGLE 2017
title: Spean Bridge to Balloch
excerpt: 98 miles
permalink: /day-three/
date: 14 August 2017

---


## Fort William

Originally when planning out the whole route Fort William was going to be one of my stops, however it then turned into my morning destination on Day 3. With it being a flat start to the day I made quick progress despite still fighting a headwind most of the way. This was also a nice little stretch to warm me up for what was going to be the most challenging part of the day, climbing through Glencoe. Just before the climbs began I stopped off for what became a ritual of having a second breakfast in the mornings. My calorie intake was extremely high as you can imagine and regular stops or nibbling bits on the go was essential to me in getting to Lands End on the 22nd of August.

## Glencoe

Without doubt one of the best parts of my adventure was cycling through the valleys of Glencoe. I am of course biased although this solidified the fact for me that Scotland has some of the best remote scenery in the world. The overcast gloomy weather made seem even more astounding and it is a stint of cycling that I will never forget. If there is one place to get lost in Scotland, it is Glencoe. 

## Another Chance Encounter

At around 35 miles in I found myself meandering tight lane surrounded by large willow trees. As I approached the end and peered right to check for traffic I saw the same 3 cyclists I bumped into on my first day. We spent the next 20 mins catching up all of our conditioning and of course bemoaned the weather. Despite this, spirits were high and then informed me that they were heading towards Campbelltown, a completely different route to myself.

## Balloch

Another place I was not going to miss passing through was Loch Lomond. I knew that once I started working my way through the Trossachs that my destination was on the other side of the park. Altough I was feeling good, I used every opportunity to conserve energy and the cycle paths next to the Loch were a perfect place to do that as well as take in another beautiful part of the country I am lucky enough to call home.

## Cycling Highlight

There was only one winner as you have probably have guessed already for my highlight of the day. Cycling through Glencoe almost felt as if I was part of a James Bond movie. I like to think that I am fairly quick on a bike on my day although I am pretty sure Daniel Craig could leave me for dead in an Aston Martin. Nevertheless you get the idea, I hope! 

Something about the landscape struck a chord with me that day and is very hard to describe in words.