---

layout: post
metaTitle: Day 1 | John O'Groats to Lairg | JOGLE
title: John O'Groats to Lairg
excerpt: 100 miles
permalink: /day-one/
heroImage: /assets/img/Start-of-JOGLE.jpg
date: 12 August 2017

---

## Getting to the start

After 6 months of training and meticilous planning it was time to make the journey to John o'Groats from Edinburgh.

Upon finishing work on the Friday I was due to start at the crack of dawn on the Sunday morning. The logistical challenge of getting to the start was made 100 times easier with my parents renting a van so that there was plenty of room for my bike and any other essentials that I had decided to take on the journey. This lead to an unforgettable road trip where we were chatting about places I would pass through. With my Dad being well travelled within the UK, every second place I mentioned garnered the phrase, "There is a great pub there". We stopped briefly in Clayton, about 50 miles past Inverness and then headed for John O'Groats. A relaxing night ensued where we went over a number of 'What if' scenarios, all of which I was part of my preparation over the preceeding 8 months. We headed off for an early night as I wanted to be on the road by 7am the next morning. 

### The send off

An early breakfast and the obligatory photo next to the signpost at John O'Groats and it was time to set off. There are always doubts that run through your mind when taking on a challenge such as this one although I was confident that the training and organisation in the run up to the start would make for the smoothest possible journey. 

With it being early on a Sunday morning there were very few people around which made for a poignant moment as my parents sent me off on my way. A quick hug and good luck and I was off with Lands End over 1000 miles away. 

### 1050 miles to go

A 100 mile start would set me up nicely for the rest of the jounrey ahead. The plan on the bike was simple. Maintain an averge of around 13mph for 8 hours a day every day for 10 days. Sounds simple when it is written down like that!

Being in the very north of Scotland brings one incredible benefit, peace and quiet! This was a luxury I knew I would not enjoy throughout my journey therefore I took advantage of the quiet roads while taking in the breathtaking scenery that this secluded part of Scotland has to offer. All I remember from that day is seeing the greenest hills I have ever seen. It was a typical brisk Scottish summer morning and I knew through experience that I would be facing a slight headwind for my first 60 miles or so which is where I planned to have my first proper stop. 

### A Chance Encounter

Around 15 miles in I could spotted a few cyclists in the distance, all with saddle bags and what looked like similar apparel. Could this be a group doing something similar to myself? Of course it was! After sneaking onto their back wheel we got to chatting for the next 30mins or so as we shared conversation about training, travel plans and our chosen charities. This was also a lucky encounter for myself as they all helped me with my swinging saddle bag that had been hitting to top of my leg for the first 15 miles. Without there help I probably wouldn't have fixed that at all.

### Bettyhill

As Will, Catherine and David pulled in for a stop I continued on to my first stop which was Bettyhill. The first leg of JOGLE takes in a lot of the North Coast 500, another famous long distance cycle in the UK. One of the common pitstops along this road is Bettyhill. I stopped at a small newsagents which was perched right at the top of the hamlet. After living in Edinburgh for the past 18 months it was a shock to the system when I ended up eating a eating a sausage roll and having a cup of tea next to chicken aimlessly walking around the pavement. This hammered home that I was indeed in the middle of nowhere! This might sound terrible but it was one of the main reasons for doing this, getting out of the rat race for almost two weeks. 

### Tongue

With endless storybook scenery on offer, the cycling on day 1 became vastly easier with those sort of surroundings. This made my first proper stop come around what seemed like very quickly. Tongue was the destination where I stopped at a small cafe which gave me time to top up on food before the remaining 35 miles of my first day. With Tongue being almost at the same latitude of John O'Groats, it provided fantastic views. I got talking to a couple from Essex who were doing some travelling in the area and as we both gazed at the endless sea, he acknowledged that a picture didn't really do the view justice. He was right of course!

### Lairg

Around 3 hours later I arrived at my first B&B/Airbnb, the Carnbren Bed and Breakfast in Lairg. A small quaint village, perfect to grab something to eat after my first day in the saddle. Upon settling in to my room for the night and going through my post ride routine of phoning my parents, stretching, breathing exercises and a basic bike maintenance check I headed to the Lairg hotel for Scampi and Chips, a meal I had not enjoyed in what seemed like years.

This brought to end what I knew was going to be by far the easiet day of the challenge by far.
